KEP-4815+5234: DRA Update 4815 and split out 5234 for mixins (#5238)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-scheduling/4815-dra-partitionable-devices/README.md

   which allows the scheduler to keep track of available counters in a counter set
   and decide whether a partition can be allocated. A device will
   separately define the capacities that are accessible to the user for the partition.

1. Node selection delegated to devices. Node selection can be delegated to
   each individual device, which allows different devices in the same
   `ResourceSlice` to be available from different nodes. This provides
   the flexibility to describe multi-host scenarios where a single logical
   device might span multiple nodes.

The implementation of these concepts requires several changes to the
ResourceSlice API. It introduces a new field on the `ResourceSliceSpec`, namely
`SharedCounters` field which defines a list of `CounterSet`s. It also introduces
a new field `PerDeviceNodeSelection` on the `ResourceSliceSpec` and new fields
on the device that mirrors the node selector fields on the `ResourceSlice`.

1. The `SharedCounters` field is a list of named `CounterSet`s. Each
   defines a set of counters that is available for devices. This makes it possible
   to define overlapping partitions of devices, while still making sure that no

>    device can be allocated if the necessary counters (i.e. resources) is not

Author: Updated.

  //
  // Must only be set if Spec.PerDeviceNodeSelection is set to true.
  // At most one of NodeName, NodeSelector and AllNodes can be set.
  //
  // +optional
  // +oneOf=DeviceNodeSelection
  // +featureGate=DRAPartitionableDevices
  NodeSelector *core.NodeSelector

  // AllNodes indicates that all nodes have access to the device.
  //
  // Must only be set if Spec.PerDeviceNodeSelection is set to true.
  // At most one of NodeName, NodeSelector and AllNodes can be set.
  //
  // +optional
  // +oneOf=DeviceNodeSelection
  // +featureGate=DRAPartitionableDevices
  AllNodes *bool
}

// DeviceCounterConsumption defines a set of counters that
// a device will consume from a CounterSet.
type DeviceCounterConsumption struct {
  // CounterSet is the name of the set from which the
  // counters defined will be consumed.
  //
  // +required
  CounterSet string

  // Counters defines the counters that will be consumed by the device.
  //
  // The maximum number counters in a device is 32.
  // In addition, the maximum number of all counters
  // in all devices is 1024 (for example, 64 devices with
  // 16 counters each).
  //
  // +required
  Counters map[string]Counter
}

> // Counter describes a quantity associated with a device.

Reviewer: But not just one particular device as in "device defined in the ResourceSlice", right?

```suggestion
// Counter describes a quantity that multiple devices consume when in use.
```

It was tempting to say "quantity of something" but that just raises more questions than it answers, so I left out "of something".

with CDI support. A [test
driver](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/tree/master/test/e2e/dra/test-driver)
was developed as part of the overall DRA development effort. We will extend

> this test driver to enable support for `PartitionableDevice`s and add tests to

Author: Yeah, I've tried to update the language. In some places it is not quite clear to me what "is correct".

### Version Skew Strategy

The API extensions proposed in this KEP are added as new fields on the

> `ResourceSliceSpec` and `Device` types. All the fields will be behind

Author: I've updated the language in this section to avoid both present and future tense.

`ResourceSlices` have additional fields available to them, thus increasing
their overall signature. A separate Mixins feature was previously part of this
change, but will now be handled separately. It will add features that let
users define devices in a more compact way and thereby reducing the size of API
objects. But it is ultimately up to how 3rd party vendors decide to use them.

To limit the size of the `ResourceSlice` objects we have implemented several limits that
is enforced by validation:
* The maximum number of counters in a single `ResourceSlice` is limited to 32.
* The maximum number of devices in a single `ResourceSlice` is limited to 128.

For each `Device` the following limits are enforced:
* The maximum number of attributes and capacity in a single `Device` is limited to 32.
* The maximum number of consumed counters in a single `Device` is limited to 32.

Across all `Device` objects in a `ResourceSlice`, the following limits are enforced:
* The total number of consumed counters across all `Device` objects in a single `ResourceSlice`
  is limited to 1024.

The `ResourceSlice`-wide limits on fields within the `Device` object is used to allow users

> to decide whether to have few devices with many properties or many devices with few properties.

Reviewer: How much does the worst-case ResourceSlice size grow now with these limits?

We traditionally haven't gone into those details in KEPs, but I think we can answer this already and it would be good to document.

Author: I've added the data about the increase in the worst-case ResourceSlice size.
